The Asset Manager is now visible (#330)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/concepts/asset-manager.md

# Asset Manager
The Asset Manager is a brand new and more efficient way to manage the assets linked to your products/product models inside the PIM. :rocket:

The assets of the Asset Manager will be way more powerful than before. They will benefit from 3 major new features:
- the possibility to define a flexible structure, thanks to the [asset families](#the-asset-family),
- the possibility to automatize the link with your products, thanks to the [product link rules](#focus-on-the-product-link-rule) and the [naming convention](#focus-on-the-naming-convention),
- the possibility to refer to both external and internal binaries, thanks to the [media link](#the-media-link-attribute) and the [media file](#the-media-file-attribute) attribute types,

> - the posibility to have flexible asset [transformations](#focus-on-the-transformations).

Author: My bad, I added some new features but I forgot about to change the number. :D

# Asset Manager
The Asset Manager is a brand new and more efficient way to manage the assets linked to your products/product models inside the PIM. :rocket:

> The assets of the Asset Manager will be way more powerful than before. They will benefit from 3 major new features:

Author: ```suggestion
The assets of the Asset Manager will be way more powerful than before. They will benefit from 4 major new features:
```

      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "variations",
        "channel": "ecommerce",
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "scale",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 150,
          "height": 150
        }
      }]
    },
    {
      "label": "Resize print",
      "filename_prefix": "print_",
      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "variations",
        "channel": "print",
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "scale",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 2500,
          "height": 2500
        }
      }]
    }
  ]
}
```

Still not comfortable with transformations? Don't hesitate to go through the next sections where we detail each part of the transformation format.

### Label

It's just a string and it's basically the name you want to give to your transformation.  
It will be used in error messages whenever your transformation failed to generate your variations.

### Source file

> The `source` property allows you to define in which attribute value is stored the media file you want to use as the source file for your transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `source` property allows you to define in which attribute value the media file you want to use as the source file for your transformation is stored.
```

It follows this format:
```json
{
  "source": {
    "attribute": MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME,
    "locale": SOURCE_LOCALE_CODE,
    "channel": SOURCE_CHANNEL_CODE
  },...
}
```

In this formula:

>  - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the source file. This asset attribute should be defined in the asset family and of type `media_file`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the source file. This asset attribute should be a `media_file` defined in the asset family.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if that's clear enough

Author: ```suggestion
 - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the source file. This asset attribute should be a `media_file` attribute, defined in the asset family.
```

 - `SOURCE_LOCALE_CODE` is an existing locale code when `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of a localizable asset attribute.
 - `SOURCE_CHANNEL_CODE` is an existing channel code when `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of a scopable asset attribute.

::: warning
The `attribute`, `locale` and `channel` properties are mandatory. 
If the `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of an attribute that is not localizable, the `locale` property should be set to `null`.  
If the `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of an attribute that is not scopable, the `channel` property should be set to `null`. 
:::

::: info
There are additional business rules regarding this `target` property whenever you have multiple transformations for the same asset family. See the [Dealing with several transformations](#dealing-with-several-transformations) section for more details.
:::

### Target file

> The `target` property allows you to define in which attribute value the PIM should generate the new variation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `target` property allows you to define on which attribute value the PIM should generate the new variation.
```

It follows this format:
```json
{
  "target": {
    "attribute": MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME,
    "locale": TARGET_LOCALE_CODE,
    "channel": TARGET_CHANNEL_CODE
  },...
}
```

In this formula:

>  - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the target file. This asset attribute should be defined in the asset family and of type `media_file`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the target file. This asset attribute should be a `media_file` defined in the asset family.
```

Author: ```suggestion
 - `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of the asset attribute that holds the target file. This asset attribute should be a `media_file` attribute, defined in the asset family.
```

 - `TARGET_LOCALE_CODE` is an existing locale code when `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of a localizable asset attribute.
 - `TARGET_CHANNEL_CODE` is an existing channel code when `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of a scopable asset attribute.

::: warning
The `attribute`, `locale` and `channel` properties are mandatory. 
If the `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of an attribute that is not localizable, the `locale` property should be set to `null`.  
If the `MEDIA_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NAME` is the code of an attribute that is not scopable, the `channel` property should be set to `null`. 
:::

::: info
There are additionnal business rules regarding this `target` property whenever you have multiple transformations for the same asset family. See the [Dealing with several transformations](#dealing-with-several-transformations) section for more details.
:::

### Target filename

You can give a name to the generated target file. By default, the naming is based on the filename of the source file. You can define a suffix and/or a prefix that will be concatenated to this filename and be used as the filename of the target file. 

To do this, use:

> - the `filename_prefix` property, the string that will be prepend to the source filename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `filename_prefix` property, the string that will be prepended to the source filename.
```

> - the `filename_suffix` property, the string that will be append to the source filename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `filename_suffix` property, the string that will be appended to the source filename.
```

You can use both properties if you want to suffix and prefix the source filename.

::: warning
You need to define at least either a suffix or a prefix, as the target filename can't be the same as the source filename.
:::

::: info

> Suffix and prefix can only contain alphanumeric characters and the following characters: `_`, `-`, `.` and space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suffix and prefix can only contain alphanumeric characters, the following characters: `_`, `-`, `.` and space.
```

Author: The cited characters are not alphanumeric. So you can use alphanumeric characters AND those characters.

:::

Let's take an example to make this much clearer. Let's say you have a file named `amor_red_model_picture.jpg`. You want to generate a thumbnail version of this file and you want the new generated file to be named `amor_red_model_picture_160x160.jpg`. Then, use the following properties in your transformation for the generated file to be named properly.
```json
{
  ...,
  "filename_prefix": null,
  "filename_suffix": "_160x160",
  ...
}
```

### Transformation operations

The `operations` property allows you to define which image transformations should be applied to your source file to generate the target file.

In one single transformation, you can define one or several operations.

> In the case you have several operations for the same asset family, note that they will be performed in the same order than they are defined in the `operations` array. So be sure to choose the right order for what you wish to accomplish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have several operations for the same asset family, note that they will be performed in the same order as defined in the `operations` array. So be sure to choose the right order for what you wish to accomplish.
```

:::

The `operations` property follows this format:
```json
{
  "operations": [{
      "type": OPERATION_NAME,
      "parameters": OPERATION_PARAMETERS,
    },...
  ]
}
```

In this formula:
 - `OPERATION_NAME` is the name of the operation that should be perfomed on the source file. The complete list of available operations is detailed below.
 - `OPERATION_PARAMETERS` is the set of parameters for the operation. It depends on the `OPERATION_NAME` chosen before.

::: warning
The `type` and `parameters` properties are mandatory.
:::

Let's now detail the available operation names as well as their corresponding parameters.

#### Thumbnail

With the `thumbnail` type, you can automatically generate a thumbnail. It keeps the image proportions and crops it if needed.

There are 2 available parameters for this operation.

| Operator name & format | Description |
| ----------------- | -------------- |
| `width` <br> _integer > 0_ | The width of the generated thumbnail in pixels |
| `height` <br> _integer > 0_ | The height of the generated thumbnail in pixels |

::: info
Both parameters are required.
:::

#### Scale

> With the `scale` type, you can resize image while keeping the width/height proportions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `scale` type, you can resize images while keeping the width/height proportions.
```

There are 3 available parameters for this operation.

| Operator name & format | Description |
| ----------------- | -------------- |
| `width` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new width of the image in pixels |
| `height` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new height of the image in pixels |
| `ratio` <br>_integer > 0_ | The ratio (in %) for the image resizing. If defined, this parameter will take priority over the 2 other parameters.|

::: info
There should be at least one of the 3 parameters defined.
:::

#### Change of colorspace

With the `colorspace` type, you can change the image's colorspace. For example, you can turn it to black and white.

> There is one available parameter for this operation: `colorspace`. It allows you to choose to which colorspace you want your image to be turned into. It should be one of the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is one available parameter for this operation: `colorspace`. It allows you to choose which colorspace you want your image to be turned into. It should be one of the following values:
```

- `rgb`, 
- `cmyk`,
- `grey`.

::: info
The `colorspace` parameter is required.
:::

#### Resolution

With the `resolution` type, you can change the image resolution.

There are 3 available parameters for this operation.

| Operator name & format | Description |
| ----------------- | -------------- |
| `resolution-x` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new horizontal resolution |
| `resolution-y` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new vertical resolution |
| `resolution-unit` <br>_string, either "ppi" or "ppc"_ | The unit in which the `resolution-x` and `resolution-y` properties were given |

::: info
All parameters are required.
:::

#### Resize

> With the `resize` type, you can resize image without keeping the width/height proportions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `resize` type, you can resize images without keeping the width/height proportions.
```

There are 2 available parameters for this operation.

| Operator name & format | Description |
| ----------------- | -------------- |
| `width` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new width of the image in pixels |
| `height` <br>_integer > 0_ | The new height of the image in pixels |

::: info
Both parameters are required.
:::

### Dealing with several transformations

> As stated before, you can define up to 10 transformations by asset family. So in the case, you need several transformations for one given family, you will need to observe some business rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As stated before, you can define up to 10 transformations per asset family. So if you need several transformations for one given family, you will need to observe some business rules.
```

**Example**  
This example will generate an error.
```json
{
  "transformations": [
    {
      "label": "Transformation 1",
      "filename_prefix": "t1_",
      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "thumbnail",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "thumbnail",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 150,
          "height": 150
        }
      }]
    },
    {
      "label": "Transformation 2",
      "filename_prefix": "t2_",
      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image_2",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "thumbnail",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "thumbnail",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 150,
          "height": 150
        }
      }]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Non-unicity of the source value
 
In the same asset family, you can have two transformations with the same source, i.e. exactly the same `attribute`, `channel` and `locale` in your `source` property. 

> Indeed, it allows you generate different versions of your source file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed, it allows you to generate different versions of your source file.
```

**Example**  

> This example is completely valid - even if in this case we create twice exactly the same image in two different attributes, A bit useless if you ask, but still, it's valid. :wink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is completely valid - even if in this case we create the exact same image twice in two different attributes, A bit useless if you ask, but still, it works. :wink:
```

```json
{
  "transformations": [
    {
      "label": "Transformation 1",
      "filename_prefix": "t1_",
      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image",
        "channel": "ecommerce",
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "thumbnail",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "thumbnail",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 150,
          "height": 150
        }
      }]
    },
    {
      "label": "Transformation 2",
      "filename_prefix": "t2_",
      "source": {
        "attribute": "main_image_2",
        "channel": null,
        "locale": null
      },
      "target": {
        "attribute": "main_image",
        "channel": "print",
        "locale": null
      },
      "operations": [{
        "type": "thumbnail",
        "parameters": {
          "width": 150,
          "height": 150
        }
      }]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Asset attribute
::: availability versions=3.2,4.0 editions=EE
:::

> In an asset family, an asset attribute is a characteristic of an asset for this family. It helps to describe and qualify an asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an asset family, an asset attribute is a characteristic of an asset for this given family. It helps to describe and qualify an asset.
```

And here is the JSON format of the `number` attribute type.
```json
{
  "code": "number_of_pages",
  "labels": {
    "en_US": "Number of pages",
    "fr_FR": "Nombre de pages"
  },
  "type": "number",
  "value_per_locale": false,
  "value_per_channel": false,
  "is_required_for_completeness": true
}
```

### The `media_file` attribute
The media file attribute is useful to hold the binaries of a file, a file being a picture, a pdf, a video...

Here is an example of a `media_file` attribute.
![An example of a media file asset attribute](/img/concepts/media-file-asset-attribute.svg)

And here is the JSON format of the `media_file` attribute type, for an image.
```json
{
  "code": "picture",
  "labels": {
    "en_US": "Picture",
    "fr_FR": "Photo"
  },
  "type": "media_file",
  "media_type": "image",
  "value_per_locale": false,
  "value_per_channel": false,
  "is_required_for_completeness": true,
  "allowed_extensions": ["jpg"],
  "max_file_size": "10"
}
```

::: info
As of the v3.2 and v4.0, you can only have images in this attribute. Indeed, the `media_type` field only accepts the `image` value.  

> In the next version, you will be able to add new types of files (like PDF).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next version, you will be able to add new types of files (like PDFs).
```

:::

### The `media link` attribute

> The media link attribute type comes in pretty handy whenever you want your asset to refer to an external file, not hosted inside the PIM. For example, it can be very useful whenever you already have all your assets stored in a CDN or a DAM. The illustration below gives you an idea of how this attribute type can be used in such a case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The media link attribute type comes in pretty handy whenever you want your asset to refer to an external file, not hosted inside the PIM. For example, it can be very useful if you already have all your assets stored in a CDN or a DAM. The illustration below gives you an idea of how this attribute type can be used in such a case.
```
